# Pillavate---Self-rising-pillow
Congestive heart failure is a chronic condition where the heart muscles are unable to effectively pump blood. When this occurs, blood and fluid can build up in the lungs, which affects the person’s ability to breathe comfortably. As a result, when this occurs, patients have to elevate their upper body in order to open their airways to make breathing easier. One instance in which this can significantly affect people is during their sleep. Since most people sleep horizontally, the typical sleeper’s upper body is not elevated at an angle. This is not an option for people with CHF since it would cause severe discomfort and can be very dangerous to the patient’s health. As a result, patients must sleep with their heads and shoulders elevated compared to the rest of their bodies. 
	In this project, we propose an affordable portable device that patients can attach their pillows to, which goes under the patient's head and shoulders. Our product, Pillavate, provides patients with a solution that they do not have to adjust manually, making it the first of its kind. The device uses a Pulse Oximeter to detect a change in the patient's heart rate, and when identified, it signals a linear actuator to go up or down. As the patient's heart rate goes up, the linear actuator is signaled to also go up, increasing the angle of the patient's head and shoulders. Once the patient’s heart rate settles again, the system returns to its neutral state. The suggested concept was developed using plywood, a linear actuator, an Arduino, and a multitude of various sensors, which were put together to make up our first prototype. Field tests with different people and environments confirmed the expected operation. 
	The proposed device could prove to be a transportable, affordable, and adjustable assistive device for patients suffering from congestive heart failure. Allowing them to have a restful night without them needing to awaken to adjust their head angle manually.
